[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Why do we have both
an index.js file in the root directory as
well as a server.js file
in the server directory?
They both seem to be doing the same thing.
>> Scott Moss: Are they?
Let's take a look.
So, index.js is the entry
point to our server.
What is it doing?
It's, first thing it's doing
it's booting up the config
which I think is very important,
get that thing ready.
The second thing it's requiring our app,
our server application and
then it's listening on the ports.
So this is actually starting our server.
If we go look in server>server.
>> Scott Moss: I don't
see an app dot listed in here.
So if they're the same thing,
if I come in here and
I say node server/server.
>> Scott Moss: I
get the database seeded, that's great.
But the server didn't start up, and
that's because it's in index.js.
And the reason we did that is because if
you go back to when we were talking about
testing yesterday,
I needed to export the app for testing.
And that's why I have this comment
down here, export the app for testing.
So because I had to export the app for
testing,
that means I need to create another
file in order to start the server.
I could also just start the server in
this file and still export the app,
there's nothing to stop
me from doing that.
But I want my test to be
in control on whether or
not I want to start the server or not.
So it's just a way of having more control
on what is turning the server on or
off.
>> Scott Moss: And also,
server.js is connecting to the database,
it's seeding the database,
it's setting up all the middleware,
it's setting up error handling.
Whereas, index.js is just starting
the server, that's all it is.
This is like, just gonna start the server,
just gonna load up the config.
That's all I'm doing.
So it's a little different.
But good question.
Keep them coming.
All right.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions before I get
started on this stuff?
Everybody just wanted to see it or
you probably all ready looked for
it, all right?
So now let me check out to the fix.
>> Scott Moss: What is all this?
>> Scott Moss: Whatever, I'll push it
out.
>> Scott Moss: I'm
gonna push this stuff up right quick,
okay?
So now if you check out
to the fixed branch, but
you might have already be there.
git step-12-fix, okay.
So, how does this look like?
Well, let's just start at the beginning.
The category routes.
So my approach was this.
I just wanted to show you a simple way.
I wanted us to understand
exactly how the middleware work.
This is probably not the way I
would do it in my application, but
this way demonstrates
how middleware works.
So the way I did it was
I just made an array and
I placed in the middleware that I
want to run next to each other.
And that's pas,t I'll just place that
array on any route that I wanna use
that on.
So the one that we definitely need for
sure is the decodeToken,
that's doing the verification.e
The other one auth.getFreshUser is not
necessary.
>> Scott Moss: But it's great because
this guarantees us that on any, this,
what this means is that like, first,
cuz we do auth.decodeToken,
that means we're looking for a token.
And because that means, if this passes,
that means there was a user.
So what I'm saying is, if there was
a user, let's just go ahead and
get the full user while we're here anyway.
So that means on any request or
any controller route,
we have access to req.user.
That is not the same as the params.
The params slash id will look at the id
and give you the resource with that id.
But that resource is not always the user,
like for instance, in this case.
This param 'id',
this isn't gonna give you the user,
this is gonna give you
the controller with that id.
This will give you the user.
So now we'll have req.controller, I mean,
I'm sorry, req.category and req.user.
We'll have both of those.
So that's why we did that.
Is it necessary?
Only if the controller method is
relying on it, is it necessary.
In our example, I don't think any of our
controller methods were relying on it.
Maybe one or two, we'll see in a minute.
So it's not necessary, I just think if
it was like, it may be nice to have.
But if it's an expensive database
query to go fetch the user,
probably don't wanna do it,
or maybe cache it.
I'm not sure, but it's nice to have it.
So, as far as locking down our routes,
categories,
only authenticated folks should
be able to make categories.
So, I'll put it there.
Only authenticated people should
be able to update a category, so
I'll place it there.
And only authenticated people should
be able to delete a category.
Everybody else should be able to get
one category or get all categories.
If you can imagine,
in a WordPress blog it lists all
the categories on the right, or whatever.
You get to click on them and they'll show
you all the blog posts that relate to that
category, something like that.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on category?
Anybody disagree with the route
that I chose to lock down, or
have any opinions on other routes?
>> Scott Moss: Maybe
you locked down everything.
Okay.
Now, if we go into the post routes,
this one's pretty much the same thing.
Again, I have this array and I'm locking
down the same routes on the create a post,
on update a post and delete a post,
you should be authenticated.
>> Scott Moss: What
happens if I have a post
>> Scott Moss: That
has an author on it or a user,
and then I delete the user?
Does the reference to that id and
the post stay there?
>> Scott Moss: Think
about that.
>> Scott Moss: Do I
now have to go find the author,
the post with that id and get rid of it?
Or will Mongo just handle that for me?
>> Scott Moss: Is it
atomic?
>> Scott Moss: That's a good
question?
>> Scott Moss: The reason I was asking
is cuz I ran into that the other day, and
I wanted to know if anybody else knew on
the top of their head.
>> Speaker 3: Well,
Mongo doesn't deal with the req cuz they
don't involve relationships?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
Mongo definitely doesn't care.
What Mongo's doing
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, they do it.
Thank you for givng me that reference.
>> Speaker 3: What did they replace it
with, null?
>> Scott Moss: I don't know.
It's just not there any more.
I could be wrong, try and prove me wrong.
I haven't used the Mongoose since version
3 something and now they're almost on 5,
so maybe they changed it.
But it definitely was the case.
>> Scott Moss: So,
user routes,
this is the only one that's different.
So, first I added the router
that we're talking about for me.
So, if I want to get me, let me verify
you first and then I wanna getFreshUser.
So this is where you getFreshUser
actually does come in handy.
Because by the time I get to
controller.me, I can just return req.user.
I can say rest.json, req.user, done.
All right,
if anything else in that controller,
because getfreshUser already got there,
that thing for me.
So we can go look at that.
If you go look at the controller.me.
That's literally all it's doing,
is sending that back.
>> Speaker 3: Do
you need the toJSON?
>> Scott Moss: We'll talk about
the toJson in a minute.
I'm glad you asked.
I was just like,
is anybody gonna ask me about that?
Yes, we'll talk about that in a second.
>> Scott Moss: So
the routes that I chose to log down
here besides the me was only the put and
delete, so you should be authenticated if
you want update a user or delete a user.
But if you want to get one user,
I'll let anybody do it with id.
If you want to create a user?
Yeah, I have to let anybody
do that cuz that's sign up.
So if I require you to be authenticated
to sign up then you would never be
able to sign up.
So don't want to put that there.
And then get all users.
Yes, I'll allow anybody to get all users
for the sake of a blog of being able to
look at all the authors and
seeing what they wrote about.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions there?
No, so back to the toJSON thing,
>> Scott Moss: Where is it at?
Right, so I made a new method on
the user schema, it's called toJSON.
And all it does is, it uses the toObject
method that you can call on a document
that's built in a Mongoose.
So that's gonna convert it from a document
which looks like a JavaScript object.
I was saying this before,
when you retrieve something from
the database using user.find and
all those things that come back,
they look like regular JavaScript objects.
But they're really not.
They are actually documents that have
all these atomic operations on them like
.save, and .move, right?
That's not a regular JavaScript object,
so if you call a toObject on it,
it's just like okay, cool.
I'll remove all those atomic
operations and literally just give you
a regular JavaScript object which
will have the same properties on it.
It's not gonna change any of this stuff.
All this stuff will be there, this is
gonna get rid of all the other stuff that
comes along with documents, like .save,
.remove, .populate, so you can't do that.
So that's what toObject does.
So I'll do that first, and
then I delete the password property on it.
So I don't send back the hash
passwords on all the calls and
then I just returned the object.
So that's what toJSON is doing.
So it's making sure I don't
send back hashed passwords.
So that's one way to do it.
This is how you would do it
on an instance of a document.
And then the way you would do it as far as
a query.
>> Scott Moss: On our populate,
when I populate the author, I can put
a comma here and say you know what,
only give me the username
property of the author.
I don't want everything.
If I got rid of this and was like, yeah,
just give me the author, it'll give me
the entire objects, which is the username
and the password, the hash password.
But I'm like, no, I just want
the username, don't give me the password.
So that's another way to do it,
the word of population.
>> Scott Moss: And
then there's also another way to
do it during queries, which is to,
I'm not sure if I'm using it
anywhere else, let's see.
I might be using it here, yeah.
You can use the .select method on a query,
and you can put negative in front of
the field you don't want it to select.
So, if I say negative password,
that means don't select a password.
That's another way you
would do it on a query.
So those are three ways you can do it.
On the document, I made a method.
On the population, I just passed
in the properties that I want.
On the record query, I can use the .select
method and say negative the field that I
want to exclude.
>> Scott Moss: And
then call it exec.in, so
all those will do the same thing.
So this is insuring that I should
never see a hash password in my data.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on that
stuff?
>> Speaker 1: Somebody was just
mentioning, it appears that
an authenticated user can update another
user's account if they know the id.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, that's totally true.
So, a authenticated user could update
another user's account if they
know the id, that is totally true because
we haven't set up anything for that.
So, if you go into userRoutes,
user id, put.
We go into put, here, there's nothing
stopping an authenticated user
who new/id/id from coming in here and
changing stuff.
You're right,
there's nothing stopping that.
How would you get around that?
Off the top of your head,
what would you do to get around that?
With all the stuff you know about express.
>> Speaker 3: That's part of your
requirements, right?
I mean you might want to be able to so.
>> Scott Moss: Right,
it all depends on what your
requirements too, right?
Yeah, so like on a role based system
which most blogging platforms are,
you have authors, editors, admins,
maybe you want and they're all users.
But maybe you want a user with admin
property be able to update a user with
author property.
So it all depends, in our case,
they're all users, there's no role-based.
So maybe it's dangerous, but
how would you check for that,
how would you prevent that?
>> Speaker 3: You could just do an if or
[INAUDIBLE] merge, and say,
if user id equals update, got id,
would that work?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you can do that.
What's a better way?
>> Speaker 3: All that I got,
you don't get no better.
>> Scott Moss: You sure?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: You sure you don't
get no better?
What if you can do that
before you even get
here?
>> Scott Moss: What if you make that
check before you even get
to this controller project.
>> Speaker 3: Is this a middleware or
something?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you just make a middleware.
It's like, hold up, let me make sure these
id's match up, you know what I mean?
Let me make sure the req.params.id
equals req.user._id.
And if they don't, get out of here, right,
cuz on this put you have req.params.id,
so you get this id of the user
you're trying to update, right?
And then you also have req.user._id,
which is the user that sent the request.
So you see those two match inside of a,
you put that right here, right?
You just put it right here.
This makes the middleware
that would check those two.
If they don't match,
REST.sim unauthorized.
>> Speaker 1: Editing yourself or
something?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
Another approach is you can
just get rid of this id thing.
All right, it is does not have id's.
That way people can't update
anybody else but themselves, right?
So if you wanted to update yourself,
you would just do a put request to like,
slash me.
Or just do a put request to slash users,
and then I would know who you were
because you id is at req.user.
>> Speaker 3: It wouldn't really solve
the problem, it would hide the id?
>> Scott Moss: It would hide
the id's, yeah.
I would never be querying the database for
an id.
>> Speaker 3: Unless you updated it later
and then, yeah, I see what you're saying.
>> Scott Moss: It
would never happen, right?
Cuz the reason this happens is because,
if we go to params,
I'm querying the database for an id.
But if I never have params, if it's gone,
and the only way I know
about an id is off req.user.
And the only way I know about req.user
is off of a decoded JSON Web Token,
I'm guaranteed that the id that
I was looking at on req.user
is the person who actually signed in.
Whether that's you or not,
that's not my problem.
Somebody might've got on your computer,
but I know that it is the person
who's username is this, and
whose password is this, yeah.
So you see that a lot too with token APIs.
They're like,
do not use the slash id's stuff anymore.
When you're only accessing resources about
yourself then they'll bring the id stuff
back when they access
resources about other things.
So it's a little different